Scope.
This is hard for a lot of new developers.
So we're just gonna go through a bunch
of examples cuz I think that that makes
this the easiest thing possible.
You've might have already
hit some scope problems but
let's just talk about what scope is.
Variables have this idea of scope.
So there's a time where
a variable is used and
then as soon as the variable stops
being used, the JavaScript engine
will clean it up and not allow
you to use that variable anymore.
So let's just take an example that I have
this function here called addFive and
then I declare a variable again inside
of this function of addFive, right?
If I try and
console.log some variable down here
outside of the function,
it's not gonna work.
It's out of scope.
This function only exists
inside of this block.
So if I call right here,
console.log some variable.
This works, line three works, right?
Cuz I call it addFfive here.
And then this line does get run.
This does work but then the function
concludes and it comes back down here.
This time it's out of scope,
thrown away and no longer used.
Does that make sense?
Kind of the best rule of thumb
is variables are in scope for
whatever the curly braces
are that surround it.
So another example of this would be like,
if true const thing equals 5.
I don't know, something like that.
So this block does get run
because if true is always true,
this is always gonna get run.
Or you can do 2 plus 2 triple
equals 4 that's, right.
If something that's
definitely gonna be true.
If I run console.log thing down here,
what do you think's gonna happen?
It's not defined, right?
So, this was in scope
between these curly braces.
So this existed in this
short span of time.
But then as soon as this curly
brace happens here, it's gone.
It's been thrown away.
If I move this console.log
inside of the if statement,
what do you think's going to happen?
It's gonna work.
So you can see here five gets logged
out here because we're inside of
the curly braces.
How do you feel about that?
Good so far?
So this is why I want
you to use constant let.
Lets the same thing,
everything that I just told you
about const equally applies to let.
Var is a little different,
the scoping and var works differently.
We're not going to talk about it
cuz I don't wanna confuse you but
old we don't use it anymore just
know that var works differently.
Const is more predictable and
how these things work.
Okay, so
going back to our original example here,
some variable exists
here doesn't exist here.
Cool.
The same thing will apply to i, right?
So I have this let i equals 0.
Once this for loop is finished,
i goes out of scope, right?
So I can say down here, console.log i and
we get i on every iteration of the loop,
right?
But then this one down here after
it finishes the loop i is not
defined anymore at the end
of this i goes away.
So i is out of scope.
i is only in scope for
the loop that it's defined for.
This may seem like an inconvenience for
you, but trust me, it prevents this like
pollution of variables that would
make this really hard otherwise.
Scope actually makes us
your life long term easier.
Has some quirky rules for sure.
Okay?
Just a huge part of this that I
just really wanna emphasize too,
it matters where the variable is declared,
right?
So when you say let or
const equals something,
that's where you're creating the variable,
that's the act of creation.
So it matters where the variable is
created where its scope will be respected,
right?
So for
example here if I say underneath this or
above it let's say console.log
friends at your party, what's that?
What's going to happen then?
It's gonna work, right?
Because this was created
outside of the four loop.
Even though there's like a four loop
between it that's totally fine.
It was created outside of it.
And this is in the same scope of it.
So this works.
It's just i that's inside of
this that it doesn't work.
In fact, that's literally why I say the
left friends at your party equals zero.
That's why I declared up here.
If I did this here and
then it doesn't work, right?
You have to have something that's
going to be durable beyond that scope.
What I want you to do later maybe after
you take this class just take a look at
this again and see if you can find the
answers yourself cuz I think that'll be
a useful exercise for you.
And then you can check
your work down here.
Cool, the reason why, principally, that
you and I did this together is this was so
frustrating for
me when I was learning how to code.
But like I was like I was trying to log
out a variable that I had created inside
of a function is like,
why doesn't this work?
I expected this to work.
And once I kind of got grasped,
I mean the cheat here is to look for
the curly braces, right?
Curly braces are really the thing that are
really going to denote like this will be
in scope are out of scope, and
it just matters of where your constant or
your let is, right?
Another thing that I really
don't get into here that I
probably could have cheated
with a little bit as well.
And let's just take a look
what this would look like.
If I do console.log my name and
then I say const my name equals
Brian, will this work?
No, cuz I create the variable here, right?
This will get run first and
it's gonna run this and
say you haven't told me what my
name is yet, therefore error.
Just to prove my point.
Cancel, it's gonna say I don't know what
my name is it's a reference error, right?
Cuz it doesn't know what's going on there.
So you have to create something
before you can use it.
I think that intuitively
that makes some sense.
The only warning is functions work
a little bit different than that.
So if I say hi, And
I say function, say hi.
This does work.
Weirdly enough, All
functions get what's
called hoisted to the top.
So the way the code will actually execute
on this all the definitions get put to
the top automatically.
Functions as the only case of this
happening this way is the only thing that
you ever have to care about hoisting
with but that's actually what happens.
Well, var does a similar thing that's why
I'm telling you to not use var please just
ignore var but you can kind of in the back
of your brain know that var does some
similar Black magic witchery.
So I like constantly as they work
the way that you expect them to.
But with functions and
only functions declared this way.
So not all functions,,
it's just the functions that are declared
this way yeah that are written this way.
I should say where's his function name
blah those ones will get hoisted to
the top.
Okay, yeah, sorry to get on
the depth in the weeds with you but
I know I'm gonna save someone's in trouble
by going over this a little bit up front.
So I'm trying to head off problems
that I know people are gonna face when
they start writing their own code.
I'm trying to make this
least frustrating possible.
Okay.
Any questions about scope?
If it's kind of mind melting
is it's a weird concept to
graph it's very feels kind of artificial,
right?
So I'm okay if you feel like this
is weird and you don't like it.
It's one of the weirder things
you have to learn today.
For the most part like you just define
variables and then use them and
the intuitive flow that typically works
most attend to whether you expect it.
It's just really frustrating when you get
into a situation where it doesn't work
the way you expect